---
layout: post
title:  "I earned awards for best thesis in the Natural Sciences and Engineering"
date:   2024-05-20T14:25:52-05:00
author: Evan Tulsky
tags: Bionics, Systems, and Controls Lab Rehabilitative Devices
categories: Papers Awards
cover: /assets/Syracuse-University-Symbol.png
---

On April 21, 2024, Evan Tulsky successfully defended his thesis earning him a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering at Syracuse University with Honors Distinction.
<h3 id="Paragraph">"Targeting the Soleus and Quadriceps Muscles Using Powered
Robotic Rehabilitation Devices and Neuromuscular Control"</h3>
I successfully presented my undergraduate thesis titled, “Targeting the Soleus and Quadriceps Muscles Using Powered
Robotic Rehabilitation Devices and Neuromuscular Control.” In it, I introduce control methods integrating the powered machines and neuromuscular control techniques. The control algorithms address inherent nonlinear effects in the hybrid machines, compensate for human input, and mitigate muscle fatigue. To achieve this, the proposed control designs utilize kinematic feedback to control electric motors to pedal a lower-limb cycle and interface an ankle-foot orthosis. Additionally, neuromuscular control tools such as electromyography, functional electrical stimulation, and vibration stimuli are combined with the electric machines. Controllers are developed to safely combine the machines and neuromuscular tools with assistive technologies in clinical and community settings.

### Awards 
This thesis has been awarded best thesis in the Natural Sciences and Engineering of the Renee Crown Honors Program at Syracuse University (award fund of $1000). He recieved the Crown Award to assimilate his research at the 2024 CCTA conference in Newcastle, England (award fund of $2761).

### Acknowledgments 
None of this would have been possible without the support and guidance of my advisor, Dr. Victor Duenas, my many mentors, my thesis reader, Steven Evangelos, labmates (Nicholas Rubino, Jonathan Casas, Jade Carter, Miguel Manchola, and Cheng-Hao Cheng), colleagues, family, and friends that have shaped my academic trajectory.

Thank you to everyone who has been part of this incredible journey. Your support, encouragement, and belief in my potential have been the driving force behind my success. I am excited to embark on the next chapter in my career!

<p align="center">
<embed src="/assets/files/Honors_Thesis.pdf" width="500" height="300" type='application/pdf'/>
<embed src="/assets/files/Honors Thesis 2024.pdf" width="500" height="400" type='application/pdf'/>
</p>

